Introduction
The goal of this project is to predict match outcomes of European football matches more accurately than bookkeepers, 
thereby beating the odds and to, in the end, generate a positive return on investment. Based on the dataset provided
on kaggle.com that includes basic match data, FIFA player statistics and bookkeeper data, I built a model to predict
the probability of each match outcome – win, draw, or defeat.
In attempting to solve this problem, I apply feature transformation and dimensionality reduction techniques so as to
increase the quality of the feature space. I compare multiple classification algorithms and choose the one that
performs best on a separate test dataset. Also, I apply probability calibration methods based on isotonic regression
to increase the quality of class probability estimates of my classifier. Lastly, I simulate making bets using my
prediction model on the test set and observe the resulting return on investment. The optimal solution would be a
classification algorithm with better performance than bookkeeper predictions and a betting strategy powered by said
prediction algorithm that achieves positive returns on investment when betting on football matches.


Conclusion
In summary, the results of my project reflect a solid first effort in prediction match outcomes in football using
machine learning techniques. By comparing multiple classification algorithms in combination with dimensionality
reduction, it was discovered that a logistic regression model in combination with a principal component analysis
has the best performance. Combining the model selection and tuning process with cross-validation, the robustness
and replicability of results is ensured. I firmly believe that this model selection and tuning process can easily
be applied to all sorts of classification problems. Another important aspect of the project is the feature creation
process since the variety of features that could be created based on the underlying raw data is extremely high.
Since existing approaches to football predictions are considered, I created a variety of features that resulted in
final model performance superior to bookkeeper prediction accuracy. Creating these features, choosing what aspects
of a football match to take into account for prediction, and ensuring that the set of features as a whole fully
reflects the bandwidth of facets of a football match was certainly the most difficult part of this project. It
remains that football matches are affected by countless factors as well as a high degree of randomness, which makes
it impossible to achieve perfect prediction accuracy in my opinion. However, I believe that given more data sources,
it is certainly possible to further increase the performance of the model.
